## Animations

### Animations through keyframes

*Since it's not as easily found as the rest of the MDN resources, here is the MDN [guide on animations through `keyframes`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations/Using_CSS_animations).*


As said, the concept obviously stays the same, we're still going from a point A to a point B.

But `keyframes` offer very convenient features: 
- A trigger is no longer required. Your animation can play on its own, like a champ.
- It can play as many times as you tell it to, and it can even do some cute things between each run, like change direction.
- Even more importantly, it can have multiple *intermediate* states that the animation has to pass through. They are declared as *percentages*.

The main property for those kind of animations is the `animation` one. It's a shorthand for a ton of things that MDN summed up best: 

```css
/* duration, timing-function, delay, iteration-count, direction, fill-mode, play-state, name */
animation: 3s ease-in 1s 2 reverse both paused slidein;
```

Let's analyze all that through an example: 

<div class="codeExampleContainer">
    <div class="transitions__keyframes-example__toAnimate"></div>
</div>


This is generated by the following code: 

```css
@keyframes movesToRight {    
  from {
    margin-left: 0%;
  }
  50% {
    background-color: red;    
  }
  to {
    margin-left: 90%;
  }
}

.transitions__keyframes-example__toAnimate {
    background-color: blue;

    animation-name: movesToRight;
    animation-duration: 3s;
    animation-direction: alternate;
    animation-iteration-count: infinite;
    animation-timing-function: linear;
}
```

You can first and foremost direct your attention to the `keyframes` declaration. 

`keyframes` are named, just like functions, since they get later referenced by the elements we want to associate the animation with/to. Thus this `keyframe` is called `movedToRight`.

The `from` and `to` keywords respectively hide a `0%` and `100%`property and represent the starting point of the animation and its end point. They are **mandatory**. Inbetween those two points however, you are free to declare other states by declaring percentages at which those states must happen. The renderer will interpolate as best it can within those states to give you a smooth transition.

Once you've described your `keyframes`, you want to attach it to an element. That's what the `animation-name` property is for. You specify which animation(s) you want to see your element conform to. `animation-duration` should be pretty explicit after the explanation on `transition-duration`, and so should `animation-timing-function`.